>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
what's with the bracket stuff, right?
Are you guys familiar
with seeing brackets?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah?
This is more probably what you're thinking
of when you think of an array, right?
You see person [0] with brackets and
some value, right?
In this case, it's a string.
But it could be an object, it could be
a function, it could really be anything.
If you're storing an array of functions,
you're probably doing something wrong.
But it is possible.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So really what's
happening here is our 0 is just being
stringified.
And there it is, it's just a property.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: But then,
why can't we say, person.0?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cuz it's a syntax
error, because it's not a string.
So that's why we have to use the brackets.
So we use the brackets when we
can't use the dot basically.
And when can not use the dot?
Pretty much when the value is not
supposed to be a string literal, right?
So, for example, name, the property
name is name, [LAUGH] sorry, guys.
And so you say .name it,
saves as name, yeah?
When you need to coercive into a string or
it's just invalid, right,
there's some invalid characters,
you can think of it what can I create?
What is a valid variable name?
That's the way to think about it.
If it's a valid variable name, it probably
could be used with a dot notation.
If it's not,
then it gets caught up in your parser.
So that's why we use the brackets,
simply because it's a number.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And that's it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Are we all here?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right,
so what about this?
So we have our person,
we have the name, we have a plea.
I would never, Mrs. White says.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What's gonna
happen to our data structure?
What arrow needs to go where?
How about grey zipper on the very end?
>> Speaker 2: name to I would never.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: You think
name would go to I would never?
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I'm giving you
a second chance.
>> Speaker 2: Person to I would never.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: [LAUGH] Close
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What's
the problem here?
>> Speaker 3: We don't currently have
something called plea attached to that.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
when we use the brackets,
we don't assume it's a string.
So it could be a variable name,
it could be an expression.
You could call a function in
a bracket if you wanted to.
Again, probably not a good idea,
but it's valid.
It won't give you an error, so
yeah, we need to change that.
So we're updating plea
through the string wouldShe.
And so notice that the property
name here is wouldShe and not plea.
If we wanted it to be plea,
how might we go about doing that?
How about here in
the middle with the black?
>> Speaker 4: Can you ask that again?
Sorry, I was going through it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Sure, no problem.
So I just said,
notice that wouldShe is the property name.
But some might expect it to be plea,
however it's not.
If we did want it to be plea,
what might we need to change?
>> Speaker 4: Look, it would need to be on
the other side of the equals sign somehow.
Person, it's gonna have to assign
that [INAUDIBLE] cuz right now,
it's-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: How do we do it before
for this one?
>> Speaker 4: Well,
we could do the person.plea.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm, yeah, so you
can use the dot notation, absolutely, and
assign it.
So the dot notation coerces
it into a string, right?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: How can we
do it with bracket notation?
>> Speaker 3: Put quotes around it?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Put quotes around.
That's how you manually make a string,
right, instead of coercing it.
Awesome.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: There we go, so now-
>> Speaker 5: I have a question.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Speaker 5: So
could you go back to the other slide?
I guess it's kind of [INAUDIBLE].
So in this example, first you set
the variable plea to wouldShe.
And then later on,
you used the bracket thing.
If you would skip that first step of
setting the var plea to wouldShe,
then what would've happened on that
last line with person bracket plea?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so the first
thing that would happen is it's gonna
evaluate what's in the bracket.
Well, actually, we'll do that first,
but it'll evaluate to the bracket.
It'll say plea is a variable, so there's
no quotes around it or anything like that.
It's not a number.
It appears to be a variable.
So it'll first look in the scope for
a variable and look into any scopes that
it's connected to, which we'll talk about
later, and find that there's no plea.
And so let's run it and
see what it says to us.
>> Speaker 5: Would that
kick up an error then,
if you're trying to assign like that?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
plea is not defined, it says.
I think it's good to learn the errors.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
>> Speaker 6: So
show them how to fix it
with quotes in the bracket.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm,
so if you see that,
we'll just put our quotes around,
and then we're happy.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Here's our little
special thing about the array.
We have our little length, which is zero,
which is interesting, right?
Because we have some stuff in this array.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Interesting, okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Great, so
if we create something with the brackets,
can we then look it up with a dot?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Seems reasonable.
Can you image if you had to
remember how something was defined?
You can imagine,
many files and, etc., etc.,
you don't need to remember
how it's defined.
It can go either way.
You just need to remember the basic rules.
So I'm gonna point to some people, and
we're gonna uncover the rules that we have
discovered so
far about objects and arrays.
Are you ready?
Okay, so let's start in the way, way back.
What's a rule that we learned through
this exercise about objects in arrays?
>> Speaker 6: Array is a type of object.
It has some methods
already attatched to it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Awesome,
that's probably the coolest one I think.
Yeah, and then over here.
It's gonna go like this,
just so prepare yourself.
>> Speaker 6: Property string can be
passed with dot notation or brackets and
quotes.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm,
yeah, absolutely.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: [LAUGH].
>> Speaker 6: Can we come back?
[LAUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Sure, sure, sure.
>> Speaker 2: I may repeat a little bit.
But using the dot notation coerces to
a string where bracket doesn't necesarily.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
why can't we use dot number?
Like, dot zero, why does that not work?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cuz if we're coercing
into a string with a dot, right,
if we said, person.0, right,
why can't we do that?
The answer's in the next line.
>> Speaker 2: There's no variable named 0.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Well,
for the dot notation,
it's gonna coerce it to a string.
>> Speaker 3: Is it
because 0 is not a string.
It's seen as a number?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Well, you can
coerce a number into a string, right?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: The reason is
that it's just invalid syntax.
It starts to evaluate it as a number and
it gets confused.
And so it's gonna give you a syntax error.
So we can only use dot notation with
characters that are not unusual.
And when I mean unusual, I mean, can you
create a variable name starting with that
character, that contains that character,
right?
So you can use an underscore,
but not a dash.
These are things that you just kinda
have to learn by trial and error.
But just understand that if
you're using a dot notation,
you're using a character that's a little
bit unusual, you might get a syntax error.
And if you do, the solution is to?
Sorry, I was typing notes.
What was-
>> Speaker 3: Change it to a string.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, put it in a
bracket notation and put quotes around it.
Yeah, awesome, so
I know that I'm drilling this in.
But this is the most common
thing that people get stuck on
that can take a long time.
But if you learn the rules,
it's pretty straightforward.
There are I don't know,
a handful of rules,
maybe five rules to know.
But you guys seem to be picking it up.